In the last lecture, we configured our form here, we added some control by placing ngModel on the
inputs,
now let's make this form submittable so that we can actually see what the user entered.
For this, I'll go to my app component,
I already do have a method here which you will use later,
let's ignore it for now and I'll add a new method, onSubmit maybe, this should be triggered whenever this
form is submitted by the user. In onSubmit,
I want to output whatever the user entered,
well first of all we need to call this method,
so back in the template, how can we call onSubmit?
Now you might think that a good place would be on a click listener on this button here at the bottom right, because
this is a button we click when we want to submit the form,
however this is not the best place to do it.
Keep in mind that this button here is type submit,
so if we click it as it is placed inside of an HTML form element, something else will happen,
The default behavior of HTML will be triggered to call it like this.
If you have a button in a form element, this button will submit the form, will send a request normally
but besides that, it will also trigger a Javascript event,
the submit event that's built into Javascript, built into HTML
you could say. Angular takes advantage of this and gives a directive
we can place on this form element as a whole,
it is called ngSubmit and it actually only gives us one event we can listen to,
so let's wrap it in parentheses.
This event made available by the ngSubmit directive will be fired whenever this form is submitted,
so whenever this default behavior is triggered
and here, we can call onSubmit like this and to show you that this works,
I will simply go into onSubmit and log submitted here,
just like that.
Now if we save this and let it recompile, let's go back and let's open up the developer tools and if
I now hit the submit button, you see submitted here on the right
because indeed, the form gets submitted.
Now it would be nice to see the actual values of the form though, to see that form object and to see
it, we have to go back to our template because we're in the template driven approach,
so as a rule of thumb, everything you do you do it in the template, everything you want to change about
this form, you want to add as functionality,
you do it in a template. On this form object,
we want to get access to the form created by Angular.
Now you learned about local references you can place on HTML elements to get access to them,
so we could place #f on the form element and now we could access this form element on the f
reference in our template and we could pass f as an argument to the onSubmit method and print it
there.
So now we know that we get the form
and actually, this will be of type element ref as we learned.
So if we import element ref and make this of type element ref here and we output the form here,
so this element, if we now go back to this and hit submit,
yes we did see the form object, we see some strange classes here, I will come back to them but that still is not what
we want,
it's not a Javascript object created by Angular but this object is there, we just need to know how to
get to it and there actually is a trick you could call it but it's no trick, it's the default way to
get access to this automatically created object,
you set this local reference equal to something.
Now we haven't done that yet but we can set it equal to something exposed by this
form here,
keep in mind the form element is kind of a selector for a directive built into Angular which will create
this Javascript object automatically and then it will expose some data we can fetch here on this form element.
We can get access to it by writing ngForm here between the quotation marks.
So this might look super strange but what this in the end does is
it tells Angular hey please give me access to this form you created automatically.
That's just something you have to keep in mind,
this is how you get access to the form, to this Javascript object created by Angular automatically.
So therefore here where we get this form, we now still pass it,
now this will no longer be an element ref, so let's remove this type here, instead
this will now be of ngForm.
So let's import ngForm from @angular/forms and kind of makes sense that it is of type ngForm
because that is what we're accessing here,
this automatically created form.
Now let's print it to the console one more time and let's actually enter something into these fields to
see that it worked.
If I now type submit here, you see that now we get an ngForm object, an object which we certainly didn't
create
and there, we have a lot of properties,
we'll have a close look at those later.
We also do have a value property
and if we expand this, we indeed see a couple of key-value pairs here where we have the names of the
controls, so the names we set up here and the name attribute like username and email,
we find them here
and then the values the user entered.
And this is how we can submit such a form and how we can also get access to the form object created by
Angular,
we also see that our setup of controls also work.